Memoize expensive code (#110)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2021/2021-01-25-memoize-expensive-code.md

---
title: "Memoize Expensive Code"

> description: ""

Author: ```suggestion
description: "The ||= operator can provide significant performance improvements"
```

layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2021/memoize-expensive-code'
  alt: "Red Floppy Disk"
  credit:  Fredy Jacob
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/t0SlmanfFcg"
---

Memoization is a performance optimization where the result of a slow or non-performant piece of code is temporarily stored and when the expensive code is called again, the stored value is returned.

> It is a specific form of caching that is relatively elegant to read and implement in Ruby.

Author: ```suggestion
It is a specific form of caching that is relatively elegant to read and implement in Ruby due to the use of the `||=` (or equals) operator.
```

## Instead of ...

...repeating potentially expensive calculations:

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop
  def average_sweets_per_jar
    sweet_count / glass_jars.count
  end

  def sweet_count
    glass_jars.sum do |jar|
      jar.count_each_sweet_by_hand
    end
  end
end
```

## Instead...

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop
  # leave the same

  def sweet_count
    @sweet_count ||= glass_jars.sum do |jar|
      jar.count_each_sweet_by_hand
    end
  end
end

shop = OldTimeySweetShop.new
shop.sweet_count
#=> 4000003
shop.sweet_count

> #=> 4000003 # this one will be super quick!

Author: ```suggestion
#=> 4000003 # this one will be super quick!
shop.average_sweets_per_jar
#=> 8000 # this uses the cached sweet_count
```

---
title: "Memoize Expensive Code"
description: ""
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2021/memoize-expensive-code'
  alt: "Red Floppy Disk"
  credit:  Fredy Jacob
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/t0SlmanfFcg"
---

> Memoization is a performance optimization where the result of a slow or non-performant piece of code is stored and when the expensive code is called again, the stored value is returned.

Author: ```suggestion
Memoization is a performance optimization where the result of a slow or non-performant piece of code is temporarily stored and when the expensive code is called again, the stored value is returned.
```

> Memoization is a performance optimization where the result of a slow or non-performant piece of code is temporarily stored and when the expensive code is called again, the stored value is returned.

Reviewer: Comma after 'stored', I think.

> It is a specific form of caching that is relatively elegant to read and implement in Ruby due to the use of the `||=` (or equals) operator.

Reviewer: I would take out showing the implementation here. Save it for the big reveal! This is the intro after all. :-)

## Instead of ...

...repeating potentially expensive calculations:

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop
  def average_sweets_per_jar
    sweet_count / glass_jars.count
  end

  def sweet_count
    glass_jars.sum do |jar|
      jar.count_each_sweet_by_hand
    end
  end
end
```

## Instead...

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop

>   # leave the same

Reviewer: Maybe at least leave the `def average..` part? as `# leave the same` is a bit confusing on its own.

  def sweet_count
    @sweet_count ||= glass_jars.sum do |jar|
      jar.count_each_sweet_by_hand
    end
  end
end

shop = OldTimeySweetShop.new
shop.sweet_count
#=> 4000003
shop.sweet_count
#=> 4000003 # this one will be super quick!
```

## Why?

> Primarily this is a performance optimization. The first call of the method stores the result of an expensive operation in an instance variable that is then returned.
> 
> When the method is called again the stored instance value is used and the expensive calculation is avoided.

Author: ```suggestion
Primarily this is a performance optimization that has only a small impact on the readability of your code.
```

> Primarily this is a performance optimization that has only a small impact on the readability of your code.

Reviewer: Maybe something like: "Given this change only has a small impact on...it's worth it for the performance optimisaiton.."

And I think maybe make this the second paragraph in this section, starting with the "In typical Rails applications.." part...

In typical Rails applications, I've found this pattern to be most useful to optimize expensive database calls and to temporarily cache API requests to external services.

## Why not?

A piece of code can be memoized _only if_ calling the code again would have the same output as replacing that function call with its return value.

If you're looking at method calls with parameters, you can create a memoized lookup table, but that's more complex than the examples in this article.

> Memoizing results of repeated database queries isn't strictly necessary as Rails does it's own caching at the SQL level.

Author: ```suggestion
Memoizing results of repeated database queries isn't strictly necessary as Rails does its own caching at the SQL level.
```

---
title: "Memoize Expensive Code"
description: ""
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2021/memoize-expensive-code'
  alt: "Red Floppy Disk"
  credit:  Fredy Jacob
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/t0SlmanfFcg"
---

Memoization is a performance optimization where the result of a slow or non-performant piece of code is stored and when the expensive code is called again, the stored value is returned.

It is a specific form of caching that is relatively elegant to read and implement in Ruby.

## Instead of ...

...repeating potentially expensive calculations:

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop

> 
>   def average_sweets_per_jar

Author: ```suggestion
  def average_sweets_per_jar
```

---
title: "Memoize Expensive Code"
description: ""
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2021/memoize-expensive-code'
  alt: "Red Floppy Disk"
  credit:  Fredy Jacob
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/t0SlmanfFcg"
---

Memoization is a performance optimization where the result of a slow or non-performant piece of code is stored and when the expensive code is called again, the stored value is returned.

It is a specific form of caching that is relatively elegant to read and implement in Ruby.

## Instead of ...

...repeating potentially expensive calculations:

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop

  def average_sweets_per_jar
    sweet_count / glass_jars.count
  end

  def sweet_count
    glass_jars.sum do |jar|
      jar.count_each_sweet_by_hand
    end
  end
end
```

## Instead...

```ruby
class OldTimeySweetShop

> `

Reviewer: Stray backtick...!

Author: ```suggestion
```

  # leave the same

  def sweet_count
    @sweet_count ||= glass_jars.sum do |jar|
      jar.count_each_sweet_by_hand
    end
  end
end

shop = OldTimeySweetShop.new
shop.sweet_count
#=> 4000003
shop.sweet_count
#=> 4000003 # this one will be super quick!
```

## Why?

Primarily this is a performance optimization. The first call of the method stores the result of an expensive operation in an instance variable that is then returned.

> When the method is called again the stored instance value is used and the expensive calculation is avoided.

Reviewer: I feel like you've just repeated what you said in the intro...?

> In typical Rails applications, I've found this patten to be most useful to optimize expensive database calls and to temporarily cache API requests to external services.

Reviewer: Maybe all you need in this section is this part?

Reviewer: *pattern

Author: ```suggestion
In typical Rails applications, I've found this pattern to be most useful to optimize expensive database calls and to temporarily cache API requests to external services.
```

## Why not?

> A piece of code can only be memoized _only if_ calling the code again would have the same output as replacing that function call with its return value.

Reviewer: You repeat 'only' twice in the first sentence. I think you can remove the first one.

Author: ```suggestion
A piece of code can be memoized _only if_ calling the code again would have the same output as replacing that function call with its return value.
```

> If you're looking at method calls with parameters, you can create a memoized lookup table, but it's more complex than the examples in this article.

Reviewer: *but _that's_ more complex...

Author: ```suggestion
If you're looking at method calls with parameters, you can create a memoized lookup table, but that's more complex than the examples in this article.
```

> Memoizing results of repeated database queries isn't strictly necessary as Rails does it's own caching at the SQL level.

Reviewer: *its
